= TransIP API

Ruby gem to use the full TransIP (www.transip.nl) API (v5.0).
Uses an updated version of savon and implements the new request signing method that the guys at TransIP have introduced into their API.

The TransIP API makes use of public/private key encryption. You need to use the TransIP
control panel to give your server access to the API and to generate a key. You can then
use the key together with your username to gain access to the API.

For more info see:

* <b>The origin of this code:</b> https://github.com/joost/transip
* <b>TransIP API Docs:</b> https://www.transip.nl/g/api

== Install

Install from rubygems (rubygems.org/gems/transip):

  gem install transip

or add in your Bundle Gemfile:

  gem 'transip'

For the latest version: Download / clone the repository. Bundle install the needed gems and require the lib.

  git clone https://github.com/joost/transip.git
  cd transip
  bundle install
  irb # and require './lib/transip'

== API Credentials

Enable the TransIP API via https://www.transip.nl/cp/mijn-account/#api.
Make sure:
* you enable the API
* add your IP to the access list
* create and save your RSA private key

== Usage

For the most up-to-date documentation see the source files.

Setup the API client:

  # use this in production
  transip = Transip::DomainClient.new(username: 'your_username', key: 'your_private_rsa_key', ip: '12.34.12.3', mode: :readwrite)

You can use Transip::DomainClient, Transip::VpsClient, Transip::ColocationClient, Transip::WebhostingClient and Transip::ForwardClient.

In development you can leave out the ip. To test request use :readonly mode.

If you store your private key in a seperate file you can do:

  transip = Transip::DomainClient.new(username: 'your_username', key_file: 'path_to_your_private_key_file', ip: '12.34.12.3', mode: :readwrite)

=== DomainClient

  transip = Transip::DomainClient.new(username: 'your_username', key: 'your_private_rsa_key', ip: '12.34.12.3', mode: :readwrite)

  transip.actions #  => [:batch_check_availability, :check_availability, :get_whois, :get_domain_names, :get_info, :batch_get_info, :get_auth_code, :get_is_locked, :register, :cancel, :transfer_with_owner_change, :transfer_without_owner_change, :set_nameservers, :set_lock, :unset_lock, :set_dns_entries, :set_owner, :set_contacts, :get_all_tld_infos, :get_tld_info, :get_current_domain_action, :retry_current_domain_action_with_new_data, :retry_transfer_with_different_auth_code, :cancel_domain_action]

  transip.request(:get_domain_names)
  transip.request(:get_info, :domain_name => 'example.com')
  transip.request(:get_whois, :domain_name => 'example.com')
  transip.request(:set_dns_entries, :domain_name => 'example.com', :dns_entries => [Transip::DnsEntry.new('test', 5.inutes, 'A', '74.125.77.147')])
  transip.request(:register, Transip::Domain.new('example.com', nil, nil, [Transip::DnsEntry.new('test', 300, 'A', '74.125.77.147')]))
  transip.request(:set_contacts, :domain_name => 'example.com', :contacts => [Transip::WhoisContact.new('type', 'first', 'middle', 'last', 'company', 'kvk', 'companyType', 'street', 'number', 'postalCode', 'city', 'phoneNumber', 'faxNumber', 'email', 'country')])

=== VpsClient

  transip_vps = Transip::VpsClient.new(username: 'your_username', key: 'your_private_rsa_key', ip: '12.34.12.3', mode: :readwrite)

  transip_vps.actions # => [:get_available_products, :get_available_addons, :get_active_addons_for_vps, :get_available_upgrades, :get_available_addons_for_vps, :get_cancellable_addons_for_vps, :order_vps, :order_addon, :order_private_network, :upgrade_vps, :cancel_vps, :cancel_addon, :cancel_private_network, :get_private_networks_by_vps, :get_all_private_networks, :add_vps_to_private_network, :remove_vps_from_private_network, :get_amount_of_traffic_used, :start, :stop, :reset, :create_snapshot, :revert_snapshot, :remove_snapshot, :get_vps, :get_vpses, :get_snapshots_by_vps, :get_operating_systems, :install_operating_system, :get_ips_for_vps, :get_all_ips, :add_ipv6_to_vps, :update_ptr_record]

  transip_vps.request(:get_available_products)
  transip_vps.request(:get_operating_systems)
  transip_vps.request(:order_vps, product_name: 'vps-bladevps-x1', addons: nil, operating_system_name: 'ubuntu-12.04.1-transip', hostname: 'my.hostname.com')

=== ColocationClient, WebhostingClient and ForwardClient

Same as above.

Find out full methods and parameters by going throught the PHP sources of the TransIP API. You can find them via www.transip.nl.

== Contribute and licence

Please feel free to contribute and send me a pull request via Github!

(C)opyright 2014 Joost Hietbrink / Richard Bronkhorst, released under the MIT license.